## SDLC-Methodologies

### What does 'SDLC' stand for?
SDLC stands for Software Development Life Cycle. 
### What is SDLC?
SDLC is a term that is used in systems engineering, information systems and software engineering. It simply describes the planning, creating, testing and deploying of an 'information system'. SDLC can apply to a range of hardware and software configurations, this is because a system can be made up of only hardware, only software or mainly a combination of both.
### Waterfall Method:
The waterfall model is a popular version of the systems development life cycle model that is used for software engineering. It is often considered the classic approach to the systems development life cycle, the waterfall model describes a development method that is linear and sequential. Waterfall development has specific goals for each different phase of development. Once a phase of development is completed, the development proceeds to the next phase and there is no turning back, just like a real like waterfall.
#### Advantages:
The advantage of waterfall development is that it allows for departmentalization and managerial control. A schedule can be set with deadlines for each stage of development and a product can proceed through the development process like a car in a carwash, and theoretically, be delivered on time. Development moves from concept, through design, implementation, testing, installation, troubleshooting, and ends up at operation and maintenance. Each phase of development proceeds in strict order, without any overlapping or iterative steps.
#### Disadvantages:
The disadvantage of waterfall development is that it does not allow for much reflection or revision. Once an application is in the testing stage, it is very difficult to go back and change something that was not well-thought out in the concept stage. Alternatives to the waterfall model include joint application development (JAD), rapid application development (RAD), synch and stabilize, build and fix, and the spiral model.
#### Using the Waterfall method:
Firstly, the Development team analyzes the requirements set by the client. They must fully understand the problems as well as the positives. This is the research phase that includes no building or development. The team attempts to ask questions and secure all the answers they need to build the product. The Software team design solutions to the problems set out by the product requirements which includes scenarios, layouts and data models. This phase is usually accompanied by documentation for each requirement, this enables other members of the team to review it for validation.
Once the design is approved the technical implementation will start. This is usually the shortest phase because research and design would have been done in advance. Upon completion of full implementation, testing needs to take place before the product can be released to customers. The software testing team will use the design documents, personas and user case scenarios delivered by the product manager in order to create their test cases.
